- *IF* people get stuck looking for a dialog box where you type in the
window layout numbers, and don't immediately recognize that you
position the windows the "normal" way, add a tip popup that appears
the first time you run (when Settings.txt doesn't exist yet)
explaining this, and maybe with a couple of other tips, like
right-click -> Options for settings, right-click -> Full Screen for
full screen toggle.

- Generate the high score displays for games marked as type "SS"
(Solid State) with an alphanumeric 16-segment display font, instead of
DMD dots.  Ideally, use photos of a System 11-era alphanumeric plasma
display for the character images, but apply tinting to match the VPM
DMD color setting for the game.  For "EM" (electromechanical) or "ME"
(pure mechanical) type games, use something else suitable, like maybe
a synthesized hand-written sticky note or index card.

- Keep a "date added" field in the CSV database; fill in with the
current date the first time the user configures a game's basic
bibliographic information through the setup dialog.  Create a filter
long the lines of the "last played" filter that selects games added
within or before the last week, month, year.

- Default videos: create some attractive default videos for the
various windows (playfield, backglass, DMD, topper).  Ideally create a
few different themes for people to choose from.

- Read and use PinballX\Databases\Statistics.ini?  This contains some
of the same information we store in our CSV database.  It might be
nice for migration purposes to read this and use it for tables that
aren't already in our database, so that the play statistics from PBX
are carried over.
